# Using Python for pf-rerole

## Status

Accepted.

## Context

This is a personal programming project with multiple goals, including:

* Create a practical, functional, and useful program that I like
* Develop my skills as a software engineer
* Show off (a little)

When choosing a programming language, I debated the pros and cons of several different languages that I've worked with in the past, including Python, Clojure, and Go, as well as new languages that I'm interested in learning, such as Ruby and Rust.

Each language and its ecosystem is a little different, and will facilitate different aspects of this project better or worse.

I'm personally the most interested in furthering my experience with Clojure, as I'm just fascinated by the philosophy of the language.

Go has benefits for building web services and CLI tools.

Choosing Ruby or Rust would present the largest opportunity for learning, as they are new-to-me languages.

Ultimately, my highest priority is to get to a finished product that actually works, and the language that I'm most productive in is Python. Ergo...

## Decision

I will write the bulk of this project in Python. Certain situations will dictate the use of other languages, such as the standard HTML/CSS/JS stack of the web, or SQL if databases get involved.

## Consequences

Project artifacts will be published via standard Python packaging and distribution methods wherever possible.

Widely-adopted, de-facto standard tools and practices will either be adopted, or explanations offered as to why they weren't. Generally, I think I'll be mostly unsurprising.
