# Using Flask for the HTTP API service

## Status

Accepted.

## Context

Creating an HTTP API service in Python is most commonly accomplished via one of several popular web frameworks. Some of the most popular frameworks include Django, FastAPI, and Flask.

Going back to the project goals:

* Create a practical, functional, and useful program that I like
* Develop my skills as a software engineer
* Show off (a little)

The HTTP API for pf-rerole is intended to be as streamlined and lightweight as possible. As the core library is heavily functional and data-driven, the API layer doesn't really have to do all that much.

In addition, one of my primary goals for this project is to _get it up and running._ Optimizing for personal productivity makes the most sense, and of the popular web frameworks, I have the most experience with Flask. Also, being much lighter than other frameworks (e.g. Django), there's much less startup friction.

## Decision

I will use Flask to build the HTTP API service for this project. Flask is battle-tested, and has many extensions to add to its default functionality, if necessary.

## Consequences

I imagine that moving to another web framework would be somewhat difficult, though this seems unlikely to me.

Flask uses the Web Server Gateway Interface (WSGI) instead of the Asynchronous Server Gateway Interface (ASGI). In practice, the main difference is that WSGI threads are unable to multitask: if a request needs to wait for a database call, the worker thread can't handle other requests in the meantime.

For this project, I don't expect there to be much benefit in using ASGI. I expect IO to be dead simple, and there's really not much going on with character sheet calculation.

Also, if this app ever scales to the point of requiring ASGI for performance reasons, I'll be suffering from success.
