# Using SQLite for the Database Layer of pf.rerole.app

## Status

Accepted.

## Context

The rough architecture of the pf-rerole web app consists of a database, an API service, and a simple web app. The web app handles authentication (via OAuth2), while the API service acts as the primary interface to `rerole-lib` and the database.

There are many different options available for each of these major components. I've already decided on Flask for a web app framework, and that's what I'll be using to serve the API and the app itself.

The remaining component is the database.

The choice to use a database in the first place requires little explanation, in my opinion; one ought to make a strong argument _against_ using a database for data persistence, and just assume a database as the default.

Databases are largely either relational, via SQL, or non-relational (NoSQL). As this is a simple app, a fairly good argument could be made in favor of the use of a NoSQL database.

However, SQL databases offer many advantages:

* I am already familiar with SQL. I need to strike a balance between learning new things, and finishing the project, and whatever interface a NoSQL database provides is one that I will have to learn. The place to learn new things is not here.
* SQL databases are incredibly common in the industry. Any database skills that are honed here are easily transferable to other projects.
* SQL databases provide strong data integrity guarantees.

There are many easily-accessible database packages for Python, but one stands out: SQLite. The Python standard library provides the `sqlite3` package directly, and it can be used without any additional external dependencies. It's also dead simple, which is a plus for this project.

## Decision

I will be utilizing SQLite as the primary database implementation for the pf-rerole web app.

## Consequences

SQLite provides a simple, familiar interface, and can be migrated to other relational database platforms in the future, if necessary. However, such migration work may involve changes to the internal database API if I move to a different dependency.
