# Using a JavaScript framework for rerole.app

## Status

Draft

## Context

I've spent a good bit of the last few weeks stumbling my way through creating a bare-bones basic single-page application in vanilla JavaScript. I've learned a lot about HTML, CSS, and JavaScript throughout this process.

One thing that's becoming apparent to me is that in order to create a nice web application, one must do one of two things: use a JavaScript framework, or invent one's own JavaScript framework. The high-level concepts inherent to GUI app design are simply not supported well by vanilla JavaScript, and a full web application written with vanilla JavaScript will have a lot of accidental complexity due to this shortcoming.

Due to this reality of web application design and development, I need to choose and use a JavaScript framework. I'm not going to write my own, for much the same reasons that I chose to use a web server framework.

There are many factors that influence the choice of framework, including popularity, functionality, performance, and complexity.

My needs for this project are relatively simple. Recalling my stated project goals from ADR 001, my goals are to:

* Create a practical, functional, and useful program that I like
* Develop my skills as a software engineer
* Show off (a little)

These goals are roughly in order, in terms of priority.

The most important goal is to actually create a functional program that I like to use. I think that any mainstream JavaScript framework is capable of helping me to accomplish this, though for the purposes of this project, I would ideally pick one that leans towards simplicity, higher development velocity, and lighter weight.

The second most important goal is to develop my skills as a software engineer. One aspect to this that's implied is that these skills be _relevant_ to my existence in the wider software engineering industry. Thus, I should probably choose one of the more popular JavaScript frameworks.

Currently, the top 3 most popular frameworks are React, Angular, and Vue.

The last goal was to "show off." More broadly, by this I mean that I want this project to act as a demonstration of my knowledge, skills, and abilities—part of my "portfolio," one could say.

I think that any of the frameworks would serve just fine for this purpose.

Thus, the decision comes down to the functional differences between React, Angular, and Vue with regards to how they would impact the development of this specific project, in terms of both developer experience and application needs.

## Decision

todo

## Consequences

todo
